("Designing a Solar System", 2022-08-15, [world-building], en-US)

<span class="lettrine">W</span>orldbuilding is what I'd like to define as a very rewarding and infinitely deep rabbit hole one may find himself stuck in. Fortunately for me, it is not one I have delved too deep into *yet*; however my future is indeed looking bleek. So what really is worldbuilding? Well, if you're a speaker of the English language (which I assume you are if you've gotten this far), you'd be able to piece the two words together quite easily. If not, it's is the construction of a world, more precisely in which one may develop imaginery settings involving history, geography, geology and really anything conceivable (and not) in the real world. The vastness of the world really depends on the motivation, for exemple, novels would generally need a larger world which is a lot more developed compared to a game of DnD (Dungeons & Dragons). If you still cannot think of an actual example, I'm sure you've heard of Middle Earth by J.R.R. Tolkien, which is one of the most famous examples of a constructed world.

    A fair question to pose would be regarding my motivation for such a project, and in all honesty, it's not a very straightforward answer. I don't have a tangible goal of a novel or a comic; I have no clue for how long I'll be working on this project, but it just seems like a fun place to create things and let my creativity run wild. It initially started with the desire to conlang, with every conlang I was working on, I felt the need to place it in a real society with culture, religion, social hierarchy and so on; I just couldn't truly make a language without knowing where and how it's spoken. I had already been browsing r/worldbuilding by then and so the idea was no longer foriegn to me, the thought of creating cultures and societies had really grown on me. At this point I'd even like to create a way to visualise the world in a 3D manner, including all the settlements/man-made structures; however I'll be leaving that for the fairly far future. I've thought of a few ways to do this, ideally I'd like it to be a 1:1 ratio, if I had to make them in Minecraft it'd require a world of dimensions 606630x606630, which is a bit execessive; however not impossible. This would take up roughly 190GB of space, which is absolutely ridiculous considering backups and the likes; maybe I won't be building it in Minecraft afterall. 

    I suppose we'll just get into it now, do note however that all the names present are anglicised loan words from the Fluvian language, the lingua franca of the X sea; considered to be the most influential language in Ester (I might've jumped the gun and started working on some conlangs in the world).

## The Realism Conundrum
<span class="lettrine">A</span> very tricky part of this whole project is deciding what degree of realism I desire, for obvious reasons it will never be *real*, and I will always need to bend some rules pertaining to our reality. I would like to however make it plausible, in that your average Joe wouldn't really be able to tell what's right from what makes absolutely no sense, physically speaking. Anyway, I wouldn't even be able to appreciate a world which has no sound logic or science baked into its existence; which is why I will be simulating the entire solar system in the "game" University Sandbox 2, just to get all the numbers correct and properly visualise the ol' great Basterous. I will also be using several different calculators, follow a multitude of youtube videos and most importantly the great blog https://worldbuildingpasta.blogspot.com/, whom *reallllly* goes in depth about the process, explaining nearly anything you'll find yourself asking. Their blog has naturally been a source of inspiration for this one right here, however I do not plan on going into as much detail as them, nothing is ever set in stone though and that may change in the future, who knows.

## The Basterous
<span class="lettrine">T</span>he Basterous (/bæstɛɹəs/), the solar system our world finds itself in. Unsurprisingly, I'll be starting with the sun found at the heart of the system; it's likely to be a single sun system, I am however not against the idea of introducing a second sun with a *very* large orbit, meaning it'd have near negligible effects. I'll have to see how feasible that is once I've got a more solid foundation set. 

The name Basterous, admittedly inspired by the Bosporos Strait in real life, may be traced to the Fluvian word « ᛒᛅᛋᛏᛁᚱᚢᛋ » in Ester, composed of three components: « ᛒᛅ », the presumptive particle of curiosity; « ᛋᛏᛁᚱᚢ », a noun meaning « collection, set » and the suffix « ᛋ » indicating hierarchical superiority.

The Basterous formed roughly 4 billion years ago with the creation of the sun Marxl, deriving from a gravitational collapse of a region within a large molecular cloud. It is likely that this molecular cloud has also birthed numerous others stars found in other nearby systems. It is also possible that within the pre-solar nebula there existed numerous planets and celestial objects which no longer exist today, possibly having contributed to what lights up todays skies.

I'd like to write more about it...

### Marxl

Marxl (/mɑːksəl/), found at the center of the solar system. ...etymology of the name...

<table style="width:80%; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; text-align: center;"><thead><tr>
<th></th><th></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

**Age**
</td><td>

4,000,000,000 years
</td><td>

???~☉~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Approximate Max Age**
</td><td>

6,344,900,000 years
</td><td>

???~☉~
</td><td>
	
√(1/(ML0.01))	
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Mass** (M)
</td><td>

2.39x10^30^ kg
</td><td>

1.2~☉~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Radius** (R)
</td><td>

793,830 km
</td><td>

1.14~☉~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Luminosity** (L)
</td><td>

7.96x10 ^26^ W
</td><td>

2.07~☉~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Temperature** (T)
</td><td>

6498 K
</td><td>

???~☉~
</td><td>

(L/4πR^2^ σ)^1/4^\
(σ = Stefan–Boltzmann Constant)	
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Spectral Class**
</td><td>

F6.7
</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>


**Luminosity Class**
</td><td>

V
</td><td></td></tr>
</tbody></table>

### Ester

<span class="lettrine">E</span>ster (/ɛstə/), likely the only habitable planet of the solar system. As mentioned in the introduction, the name « Ester » is an anglicised version of the Fluvian word « ᛁᛋᛏᛁᛦ » written in the Younger Futhark alphabet. The etymology of the aforementioned word is quite straightforward, « ᛁᛋ » is considered an honourific particle found at the beginning of words, whilst « ᛏᛁᛦ » is a contraction of « ᛏᛁᚱᛋᚴᛁᚾ » (Terskin), meaning rock. You may translate it roughly to "Ô Rock", employing the English vocative as the closest possible translation for the honourific particle « ᛁᛋ ».

    Now was the time to start crunching some numbers, a planet of Earth's size would be very hard to manage on my own, so I elected to go for one a bit smaller, more precisely 85% of Earth's circumference and radius, a decision which led to having a surface area 73% that of Earth's, which I believe to be a suitable size. Naturally, I had to increase the density of the planet to make up for the smaller size, or else our inhabitants would be struggling to keep to the ground. With a density of 129% that of Earth's, we were able to achieve a similar gravity of 109%. To attain such a higher density, the composition of the planet is different to that of Earth's in that it is made up of a lot more ferrous; you'll be able to find more details in the next post which is focused on the creation of Ester. All this information with the precise numbers is found in the table below.

    The obliquity will influence a lot, such as the... 

<table style="width:100%; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; text-align: center;"><thead><tr>
<th></th><th></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

**Circumference** (C)
</td><td>

32023 km
</td><td>

0.85~♁~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Mass** (m)
</td><td>

4.72x10^24^ kg
</td><td>

0.79~♁~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Equatorial Radius** (r~eq~)\
**Polar Radius** (r~pol~)
</td><td>

5415 km\
5398 km
</td><td>

0.85~♁~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Axial Tilt**\
(Obliquity)
</td><td>

50°
</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>


**Density** (ρ)
</td><td>

7.07 gkm ^-3^
</td><td>

1.29~♁~
</td><td>

m/(⁴⁄₃π(100r)^3^)
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Gravity**
</td><td>

10.77 ± 0.03 ms ^-2^
</td><td>

1.09~♁~
</td><td>
	
(Gm)/r^2^	
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Surface Area** (sA)
</td><td>

3.68x10^8^ km^2^
</td><td>

0.73~♁~
</td><td>
	
2πr~eq~^2^(1+(1-e^2^)/e\*tanh ^-1^ e)\
where e^2^ = 1-r~pol~^2^/r~eq~^2^
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Insolation**\
(Solar Irradiance)
</td><td>

1384.35 Wm ^-2^
</td><td>

1.013~♁~
</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

\
\

    The first decision to be made is regarding the planets orbit was its position relative to the sun, naturally I will be aiming to put it in the solar systems habitable zone. I ultimately went for a semi-major axis (a) of 1.43 AU away from the sun as it is the closest possible distance considering the periapsis of the planet's orbit. This distance was chosen mainly due to the fact that I'd like to minimise the length of a solar year as it is already looking to be more than 500 days long!

    Now that the planets physical properties have been decided, along with its position relative to the sun, we can start designing its orbit and some of its implications. I won't go into detail about every number and variable I worked on as it was essentially just a process of tweaking some numbers in a calculator to achieve a temperature and solar year length that I felt was suitable. I will likely revisit these numbers when I start working on the climates and weather patterns to better balance them.

<table style="width:100%; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; text-align: center;"><thead><tr>
<th></th><th></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

**Eccentricity** (e)
</td><td>

0.04
</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>


**Semi-major axis** (a)
</td><td>

213,925,140 km\
1.43 AU
</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>


**Periapsis**
</td><td>

205,368,134 km\
1.37 AU
</td><td></td><td>
	
(-e\*a)+a
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Apoapsis**
</td><td>

222,482,146 km\
1.48 AU
</td><td></td><td>
	
(e\*a)+a
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Orbital Inclination**
</td><td>

74°
</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>


**Longitude of Ascending Node**
</td><td>

???
</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>


**Argument of Periopsis** (ω)
</td><td>

???
</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>


**Orbital Velocity**
</td><td>

27.17 ± 0.4 kms ^-1^
</td><td>

0.91~♁~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Period**
</td><td>

491.62 days
</td><td>

1 year, 205 days,\
3 hours, 54 minutes~♁~
</td><td>
	
2π((a3/(GM))1/2) seconds
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Sidreal Rotation**\
(Solar Day)
</td><td>

27.78 hours\
(27.83 hours)
</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>


**Roche Limit** (d)
</td><td>

???
</td><td>

292.5~♁~
</td><td>
	
1.94r(2M/m)^⅓^
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Hill Sphere** (R~H~)
</td><td>

???
</td><td>

2.59~♁~
</td><td>
	
a(m/3M)^⅓^
</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

    The Roche limit is the ultimate inner boundary for rigid bodies, it is the point at which the tidal forces from the star are stronger than the planet's gravity, causing it to tear apart. Obviously, this is less than ideal as we'd like a planet that stays together preferably. Calculating the Roche limit is not particularly difficult, however there is a small nuance that must be considered. It turns out that it's better to consider a planet as a fluid, even though it is exponentially harder to calculate the Roche limit of a fluid body. Luckily, it can be reasonably approximate the the fluid body Roche limit is 1.94 times that of the rigid body, hence the 1.94 found in the equation.

    The Hill sphere is the region around the planet (or any orbiting body) where smaller bodies would tend to orbit the planet rather than following their own orbits around the star (or any other parent body). If two bodies would like to follow independent orbits, they must have at least 1 mutual Hill radius apart.

\
\

    At this point we need to calculate the albedo (A), which is a way to quantify how much solar radiation is refelected off Earth and back into space. This is measured from a scale of 0-1, 0 corresponding to a black body absorbing all radiation, and 1 corresponding to a body that reflects all radiation. Naturally, the more that is reflected, the lower the planets temperature. To calculate the albedo we must know the composition of Estra, meaning the amount of open water, snow, ice, rock, forest and so on. Expectedly, this has not yet been decided, however I can give a rough guess on what I am expecting to do, I will then come back and tweak these numbers once it's all decided in the future.

<table style="width:80%; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; text-align: center;"><thead><tr>
<th>Material</th><th>% of Surface</th><th>Standard Albedo</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

**Rock**
</td><td>

2
</td><td>

0.10
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Ice**
</td><td>

2.5
</td><td>

0.50
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Snow**
</td><td>

2.5
</td><td>

0.80
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Water**
</td><td>

57.5
</td><td>

0.07
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Forest** (M)
</td><td>

4
</td><td>

0.02
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Grassland** (M)
</td><td>

3
</td><td>

0.05
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Forest** (K-G)
</td><td>

2
</td><td>

0.10
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Grassland** (K-G)
</td><td>

5
</td><td>

0.14
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Forest** (F-A)
</td><td>

12
</td><td>

0.20
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Grassland** (F-A)
</td><td>

5.5
</td><td>

0.25
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Desert**
</td><td>

4
</td><td>

0.3
</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

\
\

    This amount to a clear sky albedo of 0.14. However, clouds also contribute significantly to a planets albedo, with a standard albedo of 0.55. Therefore, considering roughly 60% of Ester's surface is covered by clouds at any given moment, the clouds contribute 60% of 0.55 albedo, that being 0.33. The remainder 40% of the surface is clear skies, contributing 40% of 0.14 albedo, which is 0.05. The total albedo of the planet is therefore the summation of 0.33 and 0.05, that is A = 0.38. As a product of all the previous calculations, we are now able now deduce the following:

<table style="width:80%; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; text-align: center;"><thead><tr>
<th></th><th></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

**Atmospheric Pressure**
</td><td>

1 atm
</td><td>

1~♁~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Apparant Brightness**
</td><td>

1373 wm ^-2^
</td><td>

1.01~♁~
</td></tr><tr><td>


**Greenhouse Effect**
</td><td>

???
</td><td>

2~♁~
</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">


**Average Temperature** (T)
</td><td>

**at apoapsis**
</td><td>

272 K\
(19°C)
</td><td rowspan="2">

277 K\
(14°C)
</td></tr><tr><td>

**at periapsis**
</td><td>

282 K\
(9°C)
</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

    The temperature was calculated using the following equation: ((L~est~(1-A)) / (16πσa^2^))^1/4^ where L~est~=L~mar~(3.839(10^26^)). This however returns 246 K (-27°C), which is well below the temperature of a habitable planet; Thankfully, as a remedy, other factors such as the greenhouse effect warm up the planet by 31 K (41°C), giving Ester an average temperature of 277 K (14°C); which for reference is only 0.1°C more than Earth's mean temperature of 13.9°C.

#### To Moon, or to Moon Even More
    Well, now that the basis for the planet is more or less done, it's time to decide what moons will orbit it. Moons have a very large influence on our planet, not only are they used to tell the time using lunar calendars but they also dictate the wind, tide, and probably a lot more things I'm not qualified to know; essentially the world would not be the way we all have come to love it if not for that pesky moon. I'd like to have more than one moon, not only would it be more interesting from cultural perspective, but based on the wise words of a reddit nomad, three moons is concievable and not too complicated, so I'll be striving for that. The following will likely be tweaked as I work on the climates in the future too, but a workable orbit would still be nice to set up right now.

##### Aetiola 
    Aetiola (/aɪtioʊlɑ/), the largest of the three moons, illuminating the night sky with a deep red colour.

##### Persys 
    Persys (/pɛɹsɪs/), the smallest & closest of the three moons, composed of *IRON?* giving it a dark appearance filling the days sky with a very constrasting object, light does not reflect particularly well off it making it disappear at night.

##### Dioxst 
    Dioxst (/daɪokst/), the middle child, although not much smaller than Aetiola, it is the furthest of the three moons giving it a similar size to Persys from the perspective of the planet.


#### Planetary Ring

    Rings sometimes have big bursts of entries into earths atmosphere but burn up before hitting the ground, cool for culture imagine lots of things coming down to earth than vanishing before they hit, buncha peeps freakin' out.


# Temporary notes
Moon based magic?


I'll be working on the other planets of the solar system at a later date. I can't be arsed to work on something that won't have any realistic influence on anything I'll do for at least the next 6 months. While working on this post, I already started to work on designing the continents and structure of the planet Ester, which is a lot more work than expected. It turns out our climates are quite complex systems, which are surprisingly both very fragile and resistant at the same time. I hope you had a good read and/or learnt something from this post, if not, I'm surprised you got to this final paragraph.