("A blooming bygone byname", 2022-09-27, [language, mandarin, japanese], en-US)

<span class="chapter">I</span>

<span class="lettrine">I</span>'ve been learning chinese mandarin for a few months now and my friend 世龙 asked me what my chinese name was, I told him that I don't have one (yet). So he decided to help me name myself! Which by the way, is a very weird thing to do in my experience. Looking at you 应赴平.

So first comes first is "lian", a very straightforward transformation based on my actual name "Liam"; just stuffed into one syllable with a slight nasal change from an [m] to an [n]. However the tricky part is the tone & character to convey it. 世龙 said the second tone (́ ́) just sounds right for this, and I'm too much of a noob to understand and/or contest it so I went with it. Apparently it is a semi-rare unisex name using the character 连, however I am one to overcomplicate things and as my name is meant to represent me, I'd like to showcase that trait. I've found the following characters:

聯: closely related to 连 to the point they are synonymous in Japanese, I'm not too keen on the meaning though; which is to unite, to connect.\
練: a surname, white silk literarally speaking but most commonly "to practice"; again, not what I'm looking for.\
鏈: chain, clearly incorporating 连 for it's phonetic property, not bad but I'm not too sure how nice this sounds in chinese\
廉: honest; incorruptible; honourable: now this has got quite a nice meaning and is very visually pleasing, for now I'll stick with this, but nothing is set in stone!

    This was tricky, names in Chinese (at least standard Mandarin) often need to be disyllabic (not always) and so lián risks sounding strange on it's own. As a solution I will be adding a secondary syllable to my name, which is a lot tougher than it sounds. This extra syllable could be found before or after, I'll be putting it after to keep my chinese name as similar to my real name as possible. Along with 世龙 I brainstormed as he sits in the boot of his car just after a lecture, we think of doing 2 things:

1. Translate the meaning of my name Liam to chinese, which can be traced back to Wilhelm meaning "determined protector", leading to the name 連戰 `lián zhàn`. However, not only am I not a big fan of the `zhàn` sound but it also the name of a famous Taiwanese President from roughly 25 years ago, I'm not sure what it is but I'd rather not have my name be associated with famous political figures, especially considering the tensions regarding Taiwan.
	
2. Search up a list of chinese names starting with `lián`, a lot of nice ones were read, most notably *zhao xiao ....*, but I ended up going with `hui`, not sure what it is but it just felt right.

    Now it's time to choose the tone and find the appropriate character, I was always leaning towards the first or fourth tone, and fortunately those 2 are the richest lexicologically speaking. The following is a non-exhaustive list of characters with the `hui` reading (I'm sure there are many many more but I would like to keep it more or less intelligible to the majority of the population, so I'll be choosing more common characters).


| Tone | Characters   					|
|------|--------------------------------|
|  ¯   | 诙麾徽暉輝隳揮恢         			|
|  ´   | 洄蛔茴回                			|
|  ˇ   | 虺咴誨                  		|
|  `   | 会蟪恚彗喙穢蕙諱薈慧繪繢卉惠彙賄晦燴	|

\
    I ended up going with 輝 as 連輝 is an actual name, not too common but it exists! Reading of `huī` meaning `brightness; lustre; brilliance; radiance; splendour` as per Wiktionary. I was unable to find a surname, 小島 was of interest as it means `little island` (i.e. what I'm from), but it is chiefly Japanese and would sound strange to many Chinese.

\
\

<span class="divider">L</span>

<span class="chapter">II</span>

<span class="lettrine">W</span>ell, after literal months trying to warm up to 廉輝, I just couldn't. Not only do I struggle to write the 3^rd^ stroke which is 撇 of 廉 because I'm left handed, I just really don't like the key 广. I then sought some help online, which is when I met 苏鸿因 (a.k.a. Arthur, creator of r/chinese_handwriting where one might find my own handwriting on the banner :)). After going back and fourth with him I decided I wasn't too fond of `lian` either, it was just a mouthful to say. In addition, 苏鸿因 told me it really is okay to have a single syllable given name, his being like that; even though it is a lot less common (at roughly 8% of the chinese population at time of writing). This led me to choosing a name that is both more faithful to what my mother wanted when naming me Liam (i.e. a short name that is easy to say) and something I can identify with more: `li`. Expectedly, many people call me `Lee` rather than `Liam`, so you could say that `li` is more faithful to my western name than `lian` is. 

    This is where I make my life miserably hard, I'd like a name that easily translates to Japanese, I plan on integrating into Japanese culture one day, and, in my opinion, having the same written name in both Chinese and Japanese would be a big plus. I already struggle at the prospect of having two names (and therefore identities), to the point I cannot even begin to fathom having three! A big criteria though was, I'd like my Japanese name to use native Japanese readings (Kun'yomi). This led me on a search for chinese characters that are used in both Chinese and Japanese, with the Japanese variant having native readings for given names (Nanori). The two I found that had a `li` reading in chinese were 鯉 and 禮. 鯉 introduced many given names that I really liked such as 鯉多朗(こいたろう/Koitarou), 鯉次郎(こいじろう/Koijirou​), 鯉子山(こいごやま/Koigoyama​) or 鯉之輔(こいのすけ/Koinosuke), however as you can see they all require supplementary characters to complete the name. This implies that my name would not be 1:1 from Chinese to Japanese. However, lo' and behold 禮 (or shinjitai 礼), which does indeed have many readings without introducing any other characters, this exhaustively includes: ​ゆたか (Yutaka​), ひろ (Hiro), ひろし (Hiroshi) and ゆずる (Yuzuru). Originally I did not appreciate ​ゆたか much, but it's somewhat growing on me, I have yet to decide which Japanese reading I will go for though.

    Now that I've found a very solid given name, I must find a surname; something I am still going back and fourth with at time of writing. Chinese are quite particular about surname, contrary to given name, you cannot choose whatever character or reading you like; it must be attested, and the rarer it is, the more odd it may appear naturally. Originally, I was thinking of going for something that starts with b to retain my initials L.B. in Mandarin, the only surname really satisfying this was 白 (bai2), which is surname N°55 according to the 百家姓. This surname translates quite well into Japanese too allowing names such as しらざき (Shirazaki), しらはま (Shirahama) and しらやぎ (Shirayagi), which in all honestly I'm quite fond of. However, as I am a long practicioner of masochism, I decided that 白禮 was not visually satisfying enough. The character 白 is composed of two horizontal keys (with 日 taking up the vast majority of the area), whilst 禮 of two vertical keys. This made me doubt if I'd even like 白禮 phonetically, bai2li3, not bad; but what about zhong2li3? or potentially chun2li3? 

    After a month of running around as 白禮, I've become quite fond of the name. 世龙 told me that it sounds a lot younger compared to 連輝, which apparently makes me sound like a 65 year old government worker. I think it's very safe to say that phonetically, I am satisfied. However, what still concerns me is the visual arrangement of the two characters together, leading to two decisions I need to make: Firstly, whether or not I'll be sticking with 白 or going for 柏, which both have the same reading in chinese, but different Japanese readings (exhaustively: Kashiwa/Kashizaki/Kashiwazaki). Secondly, I need to decide whether I'll be going for the traditional form of 禮 or the simplified one 礼. These 2 worries leave me with four potential ways to write my name: 白礼, 柏礼, 白禮, 柏禮.

## Living as 白礼

...