("Creating an IME for Linux", 2022-06-05, [linguistics, programming], en-US)

<span class="lettrine">A</span>n **I**nput **M**ethod **E**ditor is a program that enables the input of characters not natively supported on the input devices, typically by using a sequence of characters that *are* natively available. Languages that utilise NON XXX writing systems such as Mandarin, Japanese, Korean require this to feasibly enter characters without having a keyboard of a hundred, if not a thousand keys. They are however also used for more than just language input, but rather possibly for the input of diacritics, unicode characters (by code) and evening Latin characters sometimes.

    Naturally, wayland being very new and niche, support for such a program is not widespread. Even at the point of this being written, there is no way to introduce a 3rd party window for further character selection (which is considered standard functionality). It was for this reason that I was motivated to create my own completely from scratch.

## The Nitty Gritty of Development

<span class="lettrine">G</span>etting started was not an easy task, first of all I had no idea how input methods worked, and at the conception of this project I was still using Xorg, which was actual living hell for IME developers (more on that later). I started off trying to reverse engineer fcitx5, the up & coming standard in the IME world on Linux. Although it is very well organised, the fact that I am not a C++ developer & the amount of extraness required for Xorg support, I was *extremely* confused. I was not quite sure what I was doing but I luckily stumbled upon the OpenBangla project, an IME for the Bengali language, which lo' and behold was also written in Rust. This allowed me to narrow it down to a simple application that will take an input (i.e. key) and output the desired character·s after some black magic, i.e. the engine. Not terribly complex and I managed to get a working version quite easily, but now how do I get this to actually read keyboard input on the fly? 

    I originally tried creating an fcitx5 module, the project is great but I just could not wrap my head around all these makefiles and c interop, to say the least it was a hot dumpster fire. I managed to get it working while sacrificing a lot of things on the way there but, it was working (thank you OpenBangla). It was at this time I coincidentelly moved over to wayland which just rendered a lot my hard work worthless, I realised at this moment what a fucking mess Xorg really is. I spent hours and hours scouring the internet looking for ways to get it working on wayland, but alas nothing. That is, until I found the KIME project, a hangeul IME made in Rust supporting wayland as a first-class citizen. I couldn't believe it, the gods blessed me and showed me a project properly implemented the not very well known wayland protocol zwp_input_method_v2-unstable. All I had to do was create a wayland client implementing the aforementioned protocol and hook it up with the engine that outputs the desired character·s based on the input! Sounds simple enough right? Well it wasn't all sunshine and rainbows and unsurprisingly implementing a wayland client is not so straightforward. I might've heavily based my wayland client on that of KIMEs but hey, that's one of the points of open source right ? Sharing knowledge n' all that jazz.

    I would just like to say how much wayland simplified the process, on Xorg one would need to implement a client for all the main gui toolkits as this was handled on the application level. It wouldn't even work with applications that decide to implement their own window management such as rofi. It still does not work for rofi but that is only due to the fact rofi does not have full wayland support yet, even though efforts from the community (thanks lbonnn) are being done.


## Benten

<span class="lettrine">A</span>s per the `README.md` benten is "A flexible input method engine made and tested only for unix systems". You may ask though, what makes this so special? There's a plethora of shabby input method engines out there that all do the same thing. Let's continue reading: "which allows the easy configuration of mixed-script writing systems such as Kana/Kanji & Hangul/Hanja." Ah, there it is, interesting. So one might ask, what does that even mean? Fair question, I'll explain: Have you ever thought, wow, is there truly no touch-typing friendly way to type the languages which utilise chinese characters? Well luckily there is! Shape-based IMEs are in a whole world of their own but they do exist, although they're not as popular as their phonetic counterparts. The basis of such an IME is the input sequence is based on the shape of the character, rather than its pronunciation. This allows characters to be written across different languages & dialects all in retaining the ability to touch type! 

    The problem is, what about mixed scripts? Many IMEs implementing shape-based methods exist, but none for writing systems which make use of both chinese characters and another script. Here comes in Benten, the IME allowing fluid changing between methods. The prime example is that of Japanese, utilising three scripts makes it incredibly hard to design a method for this, epecially one that does not depend on phonetics. There weren't many options, to change between katakana and hiragana was straightforward, the kana key which changes between the two respective layouts is likely the best solution. However, what do you do to input Kanji? As the only way of touch-typing chinese characters is by using a shape-based IME, I had to somehow cram one in this layout. What makes Benten unique is its first-class support for a shape based IME around a traditional keyboard layout. Once a specific key is pressed (in my case I use the equivalent of ; on a standard US keyboard), it will swap into Kanji mod, under the hood I am using the Cangjie5 dictionary (however any dictionary can be used).

Some examples thus far:

|Japanese 			|Benten (Total Keystrokes) 		          |Romaji (Total Keystrokes)             |
|-------------------|-----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|有り難う    			|;kb 7;toog j (12) 				          |arigatou (8) 				         |
|私は自分を洗う		|;hdi f;hbu ;csh o;ehgu j (24)	          |watashi wa jibun o arau (23)          |
|今夜食べに行きます	|;oin ;yonk ;oiav XX;hommn XXX (29)       |konya tabe ni ikimasu (21)            |
|母が大活躍です   		|;wyi X;k ;ehjr ;rmsmg XX (24)            |haha ga dai katsuyakudesu (25)        |
|理解できない   		|;mgwg ;nbshq XXXX (17) 		          |rikaidekinai (12)                     |
|鳥と一緒に飛びたい	|;hayf X;m ;vfkja X;nohto XXX (28)        |tori to issho ni tobitai (24)         |
|僕は寝ます      		|;otco f;jlme XX (15) 		              |boku wa nemasu (14)   	             |
|人生は友達と素晴らしい	|;o ;hqm f;ke ;ygtq X;qmvif ;aqmb XXX (36)|jinsei wa tomodachi to subarashii (33)|

\
    As you can see it is comparable to the phonetic japanese keyboard in key strokes, however one allows touch typing whilst the other does not, which in my eyes is a win. And yes, this could've been made with a script but you would need to live with a lack of fine grained control, which is required for a smooth experience.

## Ankra

<span class="lettrine">A</span>nkra is what I suppose you would call a fork of benten, exclusively implementing the table method. Frankly, benten may not have been the best of ideas, nor of executions either, it was however a great learning experience. It was my 2nd project in Rust, and realistically my first completed real project.

    Ankra is the project I am admittedly losing hope for. I ended up trying RIMEs cangjie, which is great but very bloaty and confusing to configure, not to mention all the docs are in Mandarin. What separates RIMEs cangjie to mine is the quality of life features that make typing a hell lot more of a smoother experience. Such features include phrase support, a "smart" dictionary and inputting multiple characters without needing to *space bar* each one in. Do I plan on implementing all of these myself? Possibly. Currently I am using Ankra exclusively for all my chinese character input needs, and it is working very well! I do however gawk in disappointement when I see 世龙 type out a whole phrase with the minimal key strokes of "wcnm" using his pinyin based IME.