("Designing a Solar System", 2022-10-06, [world-building], en-US)

<span class="lettrine">W</span>orld building, what I'd like to define as the following ?is?: an infinitely deep rabbit hole one may find themselves stuck in. Fortunately I have not delved too deep into it *yet*, however my future is looking bleek. Do note that all the names present are anglicised loan words from the XXX language, the lingua franca of the X sea; considered to be the most influential language in Eriyas (I might've jumped the gun and started working on some conlangs in the world).

## The Conundrum of Realism
<span class="lettrine">A</span> very tricky part of this whole project is deciding what degree of realism I desire, for obvious reasons it will never be *real* but it could at the least be made plausible from a more scientific point of view, and that's what I want to go for. I wouldn't be able to appreciate a world which has no sound logic or science baked into its existence. It is for that exact reason that I will be simulating the whole solar sytem in "game" University Sandbox 2, just to get all the numbers correct and properly visualise the ol' great Basterous.

## Basterous (Solar System)
<span class="lettrine">A</span>s per the title, I will begin by designing the solar system, unsurprisingly starting with the main sun found at the heart of the whole system. It is likely to be a single sun system, I am not however against the idea of introudcing a second sun which has a *very* large orbit, causing it to having near negligible effects, I'll see how feasible it is once I've got the foundation.

### Marxl (Sun)

7.92e+26

### Ester (Planet #4, ours.)
Ester /ɛst/, likely to be the only habitable planet of the solar system. Firstly, I must decide where in this habitable zone of the solar system it's found. I ultimately went for 1.43AU away from the sun, which is the closest possible distance considering the periapsis of the planet's orbit. This was mainly due to the fact that I'd like to minimise the length of a solar year as it is already looking to be more than 500 days long! 

    Now was the time to start crunching some numbers, a planet of Earth's size would be very hard to manage on my own, so I elected to go for one a bit smaller, more precisely 85% of Earth's circumference and radius, a decision which led to having a surface area 73% that of Earth's, which I believe to be a suitable size. Naturally, I had to increase the density of the planet to make up for the smaller size, or else our inhabitants would be struggling to keep to the ground. With a density of 129% that of Earth's, we were able to achieve a similar gravity similar of 109%. All this information with the precise numbers is found in the table below. 
circumference 			32024km 		(0.85~♁~)
gravity 				10.79ms^-2^ 	(1.09~♁~)
mass 					4.72x10^24^kg   (0.79~♁~)   e+26?
radius 					5415km			(0.85~♁~)
density 				7.11gkm^-3^		(1.29~♁~)
surface area			3.68x10^18^km	(0.73~♁~)

    Now that the planets physical properties have been decided, along with its position relative to the sun, we can start designing its orbit. I won't go into detail about every number and variable I worked on as it was essentially just a process of tweaking some numbers in a calculator to achieve a temperature and solar year length that I felt was suitable. I will likely revisit these numbers when I start working on the climates and weather patterns to better balance them.
-orbit
eccentricity 			0.04
semi-major axis 		1.43AU
periapsis 				1.37AU
qpiapsis 				1.48AU
period 					569.4 days 		(1.56~♁~)
velocity 				27.17kms^-1^
longitude of ascending mode
argument of periopsis
axial tilt (obliquity)	
rock limit 								(292.5~♁~)
hill sphere 							(2.59~♁~)

atmospheric pressure 	1atm
greenhouse effect 						(2~♁~)
average temperature 	14°C
	at periapsis 		9°C
	at apiapsis 		19°C
apparant bightness 		1373wm^-2^ 		(1.01~♁~)

The obliquity will influence 


#### Moon(s?)
Well, now that the basis for the planet is more or less done it's time to decide what moons will orbit it. Moons have a very large influence on our planet, not only are they used to tell the time using lunar calendars but they also dictate the wind, tide, and probably a lot more things I'm not qualified to know; essentially the world would not be the way we all have come to love it if not for that pesky moon. I'd like to have more than one moon, not only would it be more interesting from cultural perspective, but based on the wise words of a reddit nomad, three moons is concievable and not too complicated, so I'll be striving for that.

##### Aetiola /aɪtioʊlɑ/
The largest of the three moons, illuminating the night sky with a deep red colour.

##### Persys /pɛɹsɪs/
The smallest & closest of the three moons, composed of *IRON?* giving it a dark appearance filling the days sky with a very constrasting object, light does not reflect particularly well off it making it disappear at night.

##### Dioxst /daɪokst/
The middle child, although not much smaller than Aetiola, it is the furthest of the three moons giving it a similar size to Persys from the perspective of the planet.


#### Ring?

Rings sometimes have big bursts of entries into earths atmosphere but burn up before hitting the ground, cool for culture imagine lots of things coming down to earth than vanishing before they hit, buncha sewed freaking out.


### X
### Y
### Z
### P
### R





# Notes

Moon based magic?