("Impalpably impalpable impalpability, in game", 2022-12-17, [gaming, chess], en-UK)

<span class="lettrine">I</span>'ve recently picked up chess, and yes it was after watching The Queen's Gambit. I've actually always been interested in chess, hopping on every opportunity to play whenever it's arose; however I never had the patience to truly get into it. It's always seemed to me as a game of you know it, or you don't; I've always had a good idea of what chess entailed, the theory and such, and that is exactly what's pushed me away. However, this has all changed after watching the show; it's really put chess into a new light for me, showed it off from a completely different perspective. After the mere seven episodes, it's taught so much more about chess than a show ever had the right to do. I'm not entirely sure how to put what changed for me into words, but it suddenly became very digestable, somehow when I was playing I actually understood what I was doing. Don't get me wrong, I was and am still a noob, the show didn't magically make me fit to usurp Magnus Carslen.

The show talks a lot about the specific opening "The Sicilian Defence", which by the seventh episode I was able to recognise thanks to chess.com's lessons section. I will admit it is quite fulfilling being able to comprehend the chess talk in the show, at least a bit of it. Which brings me to the sheer quantity of names for the different moves, I was and am still baffled by it. The vast majority of moves may be associated with either a famous game employing said moves or if it is a common enough sequence, it will have a unique name. There are thousand of openings, including variations, chess.com tells you the opening currently in play, where I end up learning a new opening name every other game I play. So far my favourite one is the "Queen's Pawn Opening: Accelerated London System" one, probably due to the fact it's what led to my best win to date in my opinion. In chess notation (which is surprisingly quite simple), this opening consists of 1.d4 d5 2. bf4

This Christmas I will be getting a book called "How to Reasses your Chess" from Charlotte's father; I honestly cannot wait for it as I'd like to just start digging into it as soon as possible. Charlotte found it after some research, and I expect to really like it after having read several reviews and the description. It seems to be made for intermediate players (of which I am not, but I don't think I am particularly far), I'm trying to play a lot right now so I'll hopefully have many questions that book will answer for me, afterall it is easier to be taught after having failed at your own devices.