("Pokémon.", 2022-07-09, [pokémon, gaming], en-UK)

<span class="lettrine">P</span>okémen is probably the game that kicked off my gaming CAREER, it all started with the Nintendo DS Lite in around 2008, when my mother bought me Pokémon Diamond. I absolutely overplayed that game and kept resetting over and over just to replay it, I still remember many levels to this day. Eventually, my mother had bought me Pokémon Pearl, quickly finishing it just like it's brother, continuing on to Pokémon Platinum, which I had to beg for with all my might, until my mum finally gave in. As you may expect, I finished it numerous times and it eventually became my go-to game. I very vividly remember being very sad as Giratina (which for some reason I used to pronounce, and still do as: Gira**n**tina, with a soft G, such as the one in **g**enius) kept spawning in it's altered forme, which apparently is expected behaviour; as a little kid all I wanted was an origin forme Giratina, it just looked soooooooo much cooler with no legs, tentacle like wings, and a sleeker more serpent-like body (I used to love snakes as a kid). It's safe to say I'm still salty about it to this day. 

    Anyway, time went on and HeartGold and SoulSilver were released, the former very, very, very quickly superceding Platinum in my heart. HeartGold just had it all, it was my kitchen sink. I played unfathomable amounts, the graphics were great (especially for the time), the gameplay was enticing, let's just say 8 year old me was very happy. I remember buying HeartGold while in the UK, London specifically, from Argos. This was very confusing at the time as I was completely convinced Argos was a toothpaste brand, but I was not complaining. By the time HeartGold came out all my friends had gotten into the pokémon rave, however I had an ace up my sleeve separating them from me: my mothers DS Lite. This left me with two DS' at my disposal, meaning I'd be able to trade between my own games as saves used to be on the cartridges. Instead of resetting and losing all my beloved pokémon, I'd move them to my HeartGold, quickly leaving me with numerous Rayquazas, Giratinas, you name it I had it, I was just a total boss. I would often meet my friends at the public pool (Marsa Sports Club), where we'd do a mix of swimming, running around, playing football on a concrete floor which was way too hot for our bare feet, or playing pokémon, often under our towels on the deck chairs as the DS Lite had an absolutely awful screen. I remember trading with my friend Shaun a rayquaza for a lv. 100 magnetite, or staraptor, I instantly regretted it afterwards, but eventually made peace with it as I had many a couple of rayquazas already.

    Alright, before actually getting to the point of this post (which was not meant to be a trip down memory-ville), I'd just like to recount the time I hid my quasi-best-friends copy of I believe pokémon diamond, containing a ditto that he had lent me because ditto was cool and I suppose useful in some way I needed. I was very annoyed at him (hence the quasi property of the best-friendship) for whatever reason, and I didn't want to give it back to him just yet. In retrospect I was an awful liar, I had hid it under a sheet in my childhood white wardrobe, and when I told him I had "misplaced" it, I purposelly opened this damned wardrobe, to show him it isn't in there, even showing him it isn't under the sheet right next to the one it was actually under. As a fellow dumb kid, he believed me, albeit a bit annoyed while doing so. Anyway I eventually gave it to him. For my future self when I start losing my mind: his name was Andrew M.

some other stories i'd like to elaborate on :\
lost in a cave for weeks (maybe months but young child time is different lol).\
pokémon black and white in uk by ramsey, sitting on a bench i was super happy

    Anywayyy, the motivation for this post was a place to compile my pokémon team, including information such as their EV training, IV priorities, moveset, nature & item held. A lot of the information is currently below, but I'd like to eventually create a nice page with more graphic information viewing, so I wouldn't need to depend on the several wikis out there on a minutely basis.

\
\

Ninetails
Sceptile
Gardevoir
Flygon
Golurk

Lucario
Staraptor
Magenton
Chandelure
Jolteon
Kingdra/Milotic



## Pokémon

**Gengar**
* Types: Ghost & Poison
* Nature: Timid
* Ability: Levitate
* Item: Gengarite
* EVS
	* 252 Sp. Atk
	* 252 Speed
	* 6 HP
* Moves
	* Psychic
	* Shadow Ball
	* Sludge Bomb/Sludge Wave
	* Energy Ball
	* Thunderbolt?
	* Dazzling Gleam?
	* Dark Pulse?

|Stat.||Range|
|-|-|-|
|**HP**  |60|230-324|
|**Attack**|65|121-251|
|**Defense**|60|112-240|
|**Sp. Attack**  |130|248-394|
|**Sp. Defense**  |75|139-273|
|**Speed**  |110|202-350|
|**Total**  |500|

Ranged is influenced on EVs


|Damage|Types|
|-|-|
|**x0**  |Normal Fighting|
|**x1/4**|Poison Bug|
|**x1/2**|Grass Fairy|
|**x1**  |Flying Rock Steel Fire Water Electric Ice Dragon|
|**x2**  |Ground Ghost Psychic Dark|

\



\
\
\
\
\

## Arrangements

\
\
\



VOLCARONA @ // Modest // Levitate
	Giga Drain
	Quiver Dance
	Bug Buzz
	Fiery Dance
252 SpAtk / 252 Spd / 6 HP

METAGROSS @ Metagrossite · Jolly 
meteor mash
earthquake
ice punch
protect
252 Atk / 6 HP / 252 SpD

METAGROSS @ Assault Vest // Adamant
Meteor Mash(STAB)
Earthquake
Ice Punch 
Protect/Zen Headbutt(STAB)
252 HP / 162 Atk / 96 SpD

GRENINJA @ // Timid // Protean
Ice Beam
Scald
Extrasensory
Dark Pulse
252 Spd / 252 Sp Atk / 6 HP

JOLTEON @ ChoiceSpecs/Scarf // Timid // Volt Absorb
Hidden Power
Thunderbolt
Shadow Ball
Signal Beam
252 Spd / 252 SpAtk / 6 HP

Garchomp @ // Jolly // Rough Skin
Earthquake
Crunch
Dragon Rush
Brick Break
252 Atk / 252 Spd / 6 HP

Rotom-Wash @ Modest // Levitate
Hydro Pump
Will-O-Wisp
Pain Split / Thunderbolt
Volt Switch

Talonflame @ Adamant // Gale Wings // Rocky Helmet
Brave Bird
Swords Dance
Roost
Will-O-Wisp
244 HP / 100 Atk / 14 Def / 152 SpDef


Noivern
Aurorus
Dhelmise
Golisopod
*Kommo-o @*
*Golurk @*
Weavile @ // 
Togekiss @ // // Serene Grace
Salamence @ Salemencite // Jolly // Moxie

Assault Vest - 50% Sp Def
Leftovers - 1/16 HP adds every round to holder
Rocky Helmet - 1/6 HP taken from opponent on physical moves
Muslce Band - Physical Moves + 10%
Wise Glasses - Sp moves + 10%
Bright Powder - Evasion + 10%

GARCHOMP - Assault Vest
GENGAR - MEGA
METAGROSS - MEGA
JOLTEON - Wise Glasses
GRENINJA - Life Orb
VOLCARONA - Rocky Helmet
ROTOM - Leftovers


METAGROSS - MEGA
GARCHOMP - ASSAULT VEST
GRENINJA - XXXXX
VOLCARONA - XX / BLAZIKEN - MEGA
JOLTEON - XXXXX
GOLURK

-23200 100 -2015







<-> Adamant/Jolly <->

Sandile
Golett
Beldum
Larvitar
Pawniard
Trapinch
Bagon
Riolu
Sneasel
Snorlax
Carvanha

<-> Modest/Timid <->

Larvesta
Gastly
Eevee
Staryu
Lapras
Litwick
Cryogonal
Swinub
Horsea


Jolteon
//Slowbro
Metagross
Lucario
Krookodile
Gengar
/Dragonite
Haxoraus
