("Naming Myself", 2022-10-05, [language, mandarin], en-US)

<span class="lettrine">I</span>'ve been learning chinese and my friend 世龙 asked me what my chinese name is, and I told him that I don't have one. So he decided to help me name myself! Which by the way, is a very weird thing to do in my experience. Ying Fu Ping

## Lián
<span class="lettrine">S</span>o first comes first is `lian`, a very straightforward transformation based on my actual name `Liam`; just stuffed into one syllable with a slight nasal change from an [m] to an [n]. However the tricky part is the tone & character to convey it. 世龙 said the second tone (́ ́) just sounds right for this, and I'm too much of a noob to understand and/or contest it so I went with it.

Apparently it is a semi rare unisex name, 连 often used for males and 连 for females, however I am one to overcomplicate things and as my name is meant to represent me, I want to show case that trait. I've found the following characters:

聯: closely related to 连 to the point they are synonymous in Japanese, I'm not too keen on the meaning though.\
練: a surname, white silk literarally speaking but most commonly "to practice"; again, not what I'm looking for.\
鏈: chain, clearly incorporating 连 for it's phonetic property, not bad but I'm not too sure how nice this sounds in chinese\
廉: honest; incorruptible; honourable: now this has got quite a nice meaning and is very visually pleasing, for now I'll stick with this, but nothing is set in stone!

## Huì
<span class="lettrine">T</span>his was tricky, names in Chinese (at least standard Mandarin) often need to be disyllabic (not always) and so lián would sound strange on it's own, forcing people to resort to mixing it with my surname; which from a very western perspective just feels wrong. 

>M'għandi l-ebda idea x'qed nagħmlu bħalissa, kull ma rrid nagħmel insib l-isem ċiniż tiegħi. Għalissa għandi jew `feng lian` jew `xia lian`, jogħġobni ħafna l-ħoss `f` imma ma tantx hawn sillabbi li joqgħodu tajjeb ma' `lian`. pereżempju `fen lian` jfisser `ħara liam`. Suppost l-isem tiegħi jiġi tradutt bħala `lian mu` imma vera ma jogħġobnix il `mu` u ShiLong qal li mhux problema biex ineħħih fortunatament.\
— <cite>moi, pendant un cours de lexicographie</cite>

As a solution I will be adding a secondary syllable to my name, which is a lot tougher than it sounds. This extra syllable could be found before or after, but for some reason I personally would find this "extra" syllable to be quite cumbersome if placed before my actual transliterated name: Liàn, so I'll be putting it after. Along with 世龙 I brainstormed as he sits in the boot of his car as if from a 90s film, we do a X of 2 things:

1. Translate the meaning of my name Liam to chinese, which can be traced back to Wilhelm meaning "determined protector", leading to the name 連戰 `lián zhàn`. However, not only am I not a big fan of the `zhàn` sound but it also the name of a famous Taiwanese President from roughly 25 years ago, I'm not sure what it is but I feel like I'd be stealing his name.  
	
2. Search up a list of chinese names starting with `lián`, a lot of nice ones were read, most notably *zhao xiao ....*, but I ended up going with `hui`, not sure what it is but it just felt right.

Now it's time to choose the tone and find the appropriate character, I was always leaning towards the first or fourth tone, and fortunately those 2 are the richest lexicologically speaking. The following is a non-exhaustive list of characters with the `hui` reading (I'm sure there are many many more but I would like to keep it more or less intelligible to the majority of the population).


| Tone | Characters   					|
|------|--------------------------------|
|  ¯   | 诙麾徽暉輝隳揮恢         			|
|  ´   | 洄蛔茴回                			|
|  ˇ   | 虺咴誨                  			|
|  `   | 会蟪恚彗喙穢蕙諱薈慧繪繢卉惠彙賄晦燴	|

\
I ended up going with 輝 as 連輝 is an actual name, not too common but it exists! It is `huī` meaning `brightness; lustre; brilliance; radiance; splendour` as per Wiktionary.

## Surname
<span class="lettrine">N</span>

### Progress
Just a random note on my progress in chinese as I don't want to make blog posts dedicated to it too often.

This is what im able to reproduced on my own:4
我好饿。
我草你妈的。
我想死。
他爸爸忙吗？
你好吗？
我也忙。
你饿吗？
我的妹妹想成为马耳他人。

This is what I learnt while writing the ones above:

不工作
今天世龙不草吗？
悲伤的很消息
他的手是他的女朋友。